---
header-id: what-is-dxp-cloud
---

# What is DXP Cloud?

Liferay DXP Cloud is a secure, reliable enterprise cloud platform (PaaS) that
simplifies the deployment, management, and scaling of Liferay DXP. DXP Cloud
provides autoscaling, development tools, environments, monitoring, and much
more, all designed with years of in-house Liferay expertise. 

## Features

DXP Cloud contains a suite of features that enable DevOps teams to deploy faster 
and with more confidence and security. Here are some of the out-of-the-box 
features: 

**Autoscaling:** Dynamically scale bandwidth and compute capacity to maintain 
steady performance through traffic peaks. This helps IT teams automatically 
address unexpected traffic flows and avoid service disruptions. Similarly, 
unneeded resources can be downscaled during periods of lower activity. Teams 
receive automatic notifications and email alerts regarding instance usage so 
they can manage resources with confidence. 

**Governance:** Administrators can deliver maximum productivity and security by 
adding or removing people from teams and managing permissions within each 
project environment. With DXP Cloud, there's no need to develop and deploy a 
separate permissioning tool to fit your organization's DevOps workflow; this 
functionality is available out-of-the-box. 

**High Availability:** Deliver high-availability, zero-downtime deployments to 
ensure that mission-critical sites stay online. DXP Cloud supports the creation 
of fault tolerance processes to meet organizations' unique needs and detect and 
repair common server problems as they occur. This helps prevent small 
programming errors from accumulating and causing a server crash, without the 
need to allocate additional resources. 

**Monitoring:** DXP Cloud delivers detailed performance metrics so IT teams can 
understand the health and compute requirements of their sites over time. 
Administrators can use out-of-the-box Dynatrace integration to quickly 
understand CPU and memory usage, data transfer rates, and more. 

**Application Management:** Administrators can keep track of application 
performance with real-time build and deployment logs. DevOps teams can analyze 
stack traces and troubleshoot bugs from their web console and command line 
interface, or download the logs for use in their preferred tools. 

**Backup, Recovery, and Security:** DXP Cloud provides automatic, secure backups 
to ensure that data and documents are protected and ready for restoration in 
case of critical data corruption or failure. Encryption at rest ensures that 
sensitive data saved on disks isn't readable by any user or application without 
a valid key. DXP Cloud delivers data through multi-region architecture to ensure 
high availability. 
